Quick thoughts:

Physically trading with people and NPCs

No quest tracking.

first ~15 levels involve finding bits and ends from around your startingish
zones rather than just being given them at the end of each section

newb armor then sol armor 

very few things are terribly gear dependent other than one or two class sets,
gear is distributed based on what monsters are there, not just random ass
pieces of armor from a wolf.  This feels fantastic.

Lack of information in game.  There isn't a whole lot of information in the
game itself. NPC's really only know what they would know about things. Rumors,
suspicions, and fears basically.  If you want the newb armor or Sol armor you
have to find the right pieces and forge the armor.

No map. This one is mixed. I actually really enjoy the player added maps in
LoY. I can remember whenever GoD came out (the first xpac after to have non
instanced zones) rangers (anyone really) (fast, could track and some other
stuff) would run around the new zones creating detailed maps. Sony provided no
mechanism for actually uploading or downloading these maps anywhere so the
community sprung into action to create mapfiend to help distribute "official?"
"Standard?" map packs for the community.  I spent a lot of time marking stuff
on my maps when I played as I found it very useful.

no instancing -- another interesting/mixed bag. The zones are *huge* compared
to how fast your run and also given your first person views but the world feels
coherent and "one place". 


camps camps camp camps

non instanced dungeon zones, competition

a world at rest, not a world at peace or at war. every place and zone has their
own stories if you listen. Even things like blackburrow and splitpaw where
there is some nods to what happened going on. splitpaw refugees in blackburrow,
a few scrolls written in Gnoll that drop off mobs in splitpaw proper and
a small sidequest that sort of explains what happened. nothing epic or
otherwise crazy, just flavor

actual languages that actually matter.  the game has a lot of languages, none
of which you need but most of which are super cool. gnolls will shout in gnoll,
goblins speak goblin and when you are in their lairs if you speak the languages
it can be helpful. you can even enter one of their cities!

one time events like the sleeper

lore of the game

lore of the players
